Add docs for 26.3.0 release (#353)
NVIDIA/cloud-native-docs: gpu-operator/release-notes.rst

----

.. _v26.3.0:

26.3.0
=======

New Features
------------

* Updated software component versions:

  - NVIDIA Driver Manager for Kubernetes v0.10.0
  - NVIDIA Container Toolkit v1.19.0
  - NVIDIA DCGM v4.5.2-1
  - NVIDIA DCGM Exporter v4.5.1-4.8.0
  - NVIDIA GDS Driver v2.27.3
  - NVIDIA Kubernetes Device Plugin v0.19.0
  - NVIDIA MIG Manager for Kubernetes v0.14.0

>   - NVIDIA GPU Feature Discovery for Kubernetes v0.19.0

Reviewer: Missing some components here
```suggestion
  - NVIDIA GPU Feature Discovery for Kubernetes v0.19.0
  - NVIDIA vGPU Device Manager v0.4.2
  - NVIDIA KubeVirt GPU Device Plugin v1.5.0
  - NVIDIA Kata Sandbox Device Plugin v0.0.2
  - NVIDIA Confidential Computing Manager for Kubernetes v0.3.0
```

----

.. _v26.3.0:

26.3.0
=======

New Features
------------

* Updated software component versions:

>   - NVIDIA Driver Manager for Kubernetes v0.9.1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - NVIDIA Driver Manager for Kubernetes v0.10.0
```

  - NVIDIA Container Toolkit v1.19.0
  - NVIDIA DCGM v4.5.2-1
  - NVIDIA DCGM Exporter v4.5.1-4.8.0
  - NVIDIA GDS Driver v2.27.3
  - NVIDIA Kubernetes Device Plugin v0.18.2
  - NVIDIA MIG Manager for Kubernetes v0.13.1

>   - NVIDIA GPU Feature Discovery for Kubernetes v0.18.2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - NVIDIA Kubernetes Device Plugin v0.19.0
  - NVIDIA MIG Manager for Kubernetes v0.14.0
  - NVIDIA GPU Feature Discovery for Kubernetes v0.19.0
```

* Added support for these NVIDIA Data Center GPU Driver versions:

  - 580.126.20 (default)

* Added support for Node Resource Interface (NRI) Plugin. 
  This is a new way of injecting GPU management CDI devices into operands, replacing the ``nvidia`` runtime class. 
  Enable by setting the ``cdi.nriPluginEnabled`` field to ``true`` in the ClusterPolicy custom resource or by setting the ``cdi.nriPluginEnabled`` flag in the Helm chart.

  When enabled, the Container Toolkit no longer modifies the container runtime configuration, such as the ``containerd.toml`` file, to inject GPUs into workload containers. Instead, the NRI Plugin injects GPUs into workload containers.
  Additionally, the GPU Operator no longer requires setting values like ``CONTAINERD_CONFIG``, ``CONTAINERD_SOCKET``, or ``RUNTIME_CONFIG_SOURCE`` for the Container Toolkit on platforms such as K3s, k0s, and RKE.

  This feature requires CRI-O v1.34.0 or later or containerd v1.7.30, v2.1.x, or v2.2.x.
  If you are not using the latest containerd version, check that both CDI and NRI are enabled in the containerd configuration file before deploying GPU Operator.

  .. note::

>     OpenShift clusters do not support the Node Feature API yet.

Reviewer: I discussed this with @tariq1890 and issue encountered on OpenShift is actually not OpenShift specific -- it can occur with vanilla k8s + cri-o. Because of this, we want to limit support for the NRI plugin to just containerd. We are hoping to remove this limitation in the future.
```suggestion
  This feature requires containerd v1.7.30, v2.1.x, or v2.2.x.
  If you are not using the latest containerd version, check that both CDI and NRI are enabled in the containerd configuration file before deploying GPU Operator.

  .. note::
    Enabling the NRI plugin is not supported with cri-o.
```

Corresponding content in the `cdi.rst` page needs to be updated as well.

* Added support for dynamic MIG config generation.
  By default, the MIG Manager will automatically generate a per-node ConfigMap with the default MIG profiles for the available GPUs on the node. 
  This replaces the previous static ConfigMap.
  You are still able to use a custom MIG configuration if you have specific requirements.
  Refer to the :doc:`MIG Manager documentation <gpu-operator-mig>` for more information.

* Added full support for the NVIDIA Driver Custom Resource Definition (CRD).
  Previously available in Technology Preview, the NVIDIA Driver CRD is now generally available.
  Use this feature to configure multiple driver types and versions on different nodes or multiple operating system versions on nodes.

>   Refer to the :doc:`NVIDIA Driver Custom Resource Definition documentation <gpu-driver-configuration>` for more information.

Reviewer: Question -- do we want to call out the limitations regarding migration here?

Author: updated.

> * Added support for KubeVirt GPU passthrough with Ubuntu 24.04 LTS and the VFIO framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added support for KubeVirt with GPU passthrough on Ubuntu 24.04 LTS 
```

> * Added support for vGPU precompiled driver container for Azure Linux.

Reviewer: @rajathagasthya were we actually planning to call this out in the release notes? My gut says no...

Reviewer: @a-mccarthy let's remove this bullet.

* Added support for K3s.

* Added support for containerd 2.2.

* Added support for new MIG profiles with NVIDIA HGX GB300 NVL72.

* Added support for new operating systems:

  - Rocky Linux 9.7
  - Red Hat Enterprise Linux 10.0, 10.1
  - Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9.7
  
* Added support for including extra manifests with the Helm chart in the ``extraObjects`` field.

* Added the ``sandboxWorkloads.mode`` field to help manage sandbox workloads, with ``kubevirt`` and ``kata`` as valid values.

* Added support for the DCGM Exporter to expose a metric port on the host network namespace.
  Enabled by setting ``hostNetwork: true`` in the ClusterPolicy custom resource, or passing ``--set dcgmExporter.hostNetwork=true`` to the Helm chart. (`PR #1962 <https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/pull/1962>`_)

* Added PodSecurityContext support for DaemonSets (`PR #2120 <https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/pull/2120>`_).
  In ClusterPolicy, set ``spec.daemonsets.podSecurityContext``; in NVIDIADriver, set ``spec.podSecurityContext``.

> * See `PR #2014 <https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/pull/2014>`_ for related changes.

Reviewer: This bullet lacks context / feels out of place. Was this meant to be a sub-bullet for another bullet?

Author: updated!

Improvements
------------

* Made improvements to GPU Operator performance and resilience, including

  * Improved the GPU driver container to avoid unnecessary driver reinstalls when GPU workloads are running. 
    This reduces downtime from minutes to seconds. 
  * Improved the NVIDIA Kubernetes Device Plugin to avoid unnecessary GPU unbind/rebind operations during rolling updates of the vfio-manager DaemonSet.

>     This improves the stability of GPU passthrough workloads (KubeVirt, Kata Containers).

Reviewer: This never made it in.
```suggestion
```

  * Improved the Upgrade Controller to decrease unnecessary reconciliation in environments with Node Feature Discovery (NFD) enabled. 

>   * Improved performance (`PR #2113 <https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/pull/2113>`_).

Reviewer: What perf improvements? We should be more specific.

A suggestion (but someone might have a better suggestion 😄 ):

```suggestion
  * Improved performance of the clusterpolicy controller by reducing the number of API calls made (`PR #2113 <https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/pull/2113>`_).
```

Author: i updated this bullet, let me know if it make sense

Reviewer: lgtm, thanks!

>   This reduces the time to recover from the driver container removal from minteus to seconds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  This reduces the time to recover from the driver container removal from minutes to seconds.
```

* Reduced unnecessary API calls and speeding reconciliation on large GPU clusters by improving node label logic (`PR #2113 <https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/pull/2113>`_).

* Improved the GPU Operator to now use operating system version labels from GPU worker nodes (added by NFD) when determining OS-specific paths for repository configuration files. (`PR #562 <https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/issues/562>`_, `PR #2138 <https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/pull/2138>`_)

* Driver validation now waits for all enabled additional drivers (such as GDS and GDRCopy) to be installed before proceeding, and each node records a node-local view of enabled features when using multiple NVIDIADriver CRs or optional components. (`PR #2014 <https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/pull/2014>`_)

Fixed Issues
------------

* Fixed an issue where driver installations can fail because cached packages were incorrectly referenced. (`PR #592 <https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-driver-container/pull/592>`_)

* Fixed a shared state issue that caused incorrect driver images in multi-node-pool clusters. (`PR #1952 <https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/issues/1952>`_)

> * Fixed an issue where the GPU Operator was applying driver upgrade annotations when the driver is disabled. (`PR #1968 <https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/pull/1968>`_)

Reviewer 2: This PR link doesn't look right.

Reviewer 2: This should be https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/pull/1981

* Fixed an issue where the GPU Operator was not adding a namespace to ServiceAccount objects. (`PR #2039 <https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/pull/2039>`_)

Removals and Deprecations
-------------------------

* Marked unused field ``defaultRuntime`` as optional in the ClusterPolicy. (`PR #2000 <https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/pull/2000>`_)
* The NVIDIA Kata Manager for Kubernetes is now deprecated.

>   To enable Kata Containers for GPUs, install the upstream kata-deploy Helm chart, which deploys all Kata runtime classes, including the NVIDIA-specific runtime classes.

Reviewer: Should we link to the kata procedure (which you are adding in https://github.com/NVIDIA/cloud-native-docs/pull/365) here?

Author: i removed this for now. will add it into the other kata PR

* Added support for KubeVirt with GPU passthrough on Ubuntu 24.04 LTS 

* Added support for K3s.

* Added support for containerd 2.2.

* Added support for new operating systems:

  - Rocky Linux 9.7
  - Red Hat Enterprise Linux 10.0, 10.1
  - Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9.7

* Added support for NVIDIA GB200 NVL4

* Added support for NVIDIA RTX Pro 4500 Blackwell Server Edition.

* Added support for NVIDIA Network Operator v26.1.0.

* Added support for including extra manifests with the Helm chart in the ``extraObjects`` field.

* Added support for the DCGM Exporter to expose a metric port on the host network namespace.
  Enabled by setting ``hostNetwork: true`` in the ClusterPolicy custom resource, or passing ``--set dcgmExporter.hostNetwork=true`` to the Helm chart. (`PR #1962 <https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/pull/1962>`_)

* Added PodSecurityContext support for DaemonSets (`PR #2120 <https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/pull/2120>`_).
  In ClusterPolicy, set ``spec.daemonsets.podSecurityContext``; in NVIDIADriver, set ``spec.podSecurityContext``.

* Validated Operator government-ready component support with Rancher Kubernetes Engine 2 using Ubuntu 24.04.

> * The following commponents are now available as governemt ready components: NVIDIA sandbox device plugin, Kubevirt Device Plugin, and vGPU Device Manager.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The following components are now available as government ready components: NVIDIA sandbox device plugin, Kubevirt Device Plugin, and vGPU Device Manager.
```

Author: updated!

Improvements
------------

* Improved NVIDIA Driver resiliency when the driver container is removed.
  In previous versions, the NVIDIA Driver would unload the kernel modules and perform the driver compilation process, which could take several minutes to complete, delaying the driver container from restarting. 

>   In v26.3.0, if there is no change to the CUDA driver version in the ClusterPolicy, the NVIDIA Driver will reuse the kernel modules that are available on the node. 

Reviewer: note: even if you keep the driver version the same, there are other driver-related configuration options (like the container image, or kernel module parameters) that will trigger a complete re-install if they were to change.
```suggestion
  In v26.3.0, if there is no change to the CUDA driver version (or other driver configuration) in the ClusterPolicy, the NVIDIA Driver will reuse the kernel modules that are available on the node. 
```
